Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the,
the Center. I'm your host as always Ricardo Lobs.
And today I'm joined for a second time by
Doctor David Pietrzyk. He is assistant professor in the
Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences at the University
of California Santa Barbara. He is an experimental psychologist
who applies evolutionary theorizing to social cognitive and developmental
questions. And uh as I mentioned, this is a
our second interview on the show. So I'm leaving
a link to the first one in the description
of this one. And today we're talking about social
categorization, alliance membership and detection, intergroup conflict. Uh David
pins off and Marty Hazleton's paper on their alliance
theory of political belief systems and some other topics.
So, Doctor Piotr Zeps, welcome back to the show.
It's always a pleasure to talk with you.
Thank you, Ricardo. It's a, it's a pleasure to
be here.
So, one of the things we talked about in
our first conversation was social categorization and alliance detection,
the alliance detection system. So how does it apply
specifically to race categorization?
Sure. So this is an idea that um people
noticed that people have been categorizing people by race,
since people started measuring categorization processes starting around the
eighties. And um for a long time, people sort
of took for granted what the mechanisms underlying that
categorization were. When people started thinking about it, there
were a few options. One was, well, maybe there
are systems in the mind for categorizing people by
race. Uh Another possibility is that it's a by
product of other adaptations. Um And for a long
time, people couldn't get people to not categorize people
by race. And you can look at that implicitly
by looking at things like patterns of memory errors.
So you show somebody a face in a statement,
you see, do they mis attribute what one woman
said to another woman, what one man said to
another man to the degree they do that they
have categorized by, for example, sex. But you can
do that for things like age sex, race or
any other social category. Um And what people found
was people always categorized by age, sex and race.
Um And the question of why do they categorize
by race. Um And so what I've done in
some of my work and we talked about this
a little bit last time you and I talked.
Um AND I've got a number of papers now
along with other colleagues showing that the system that's
categorizing people by race. Um What it seems to
be is a system for tracking alliances. So the
idea is that race as we think about it
is very superficial skin deep, um uh adaptations for
things like climate exposure, um maybe pathogen exposure um
or, and, but those superficial features are not things
that the mind is necessarily designed to attend to.
Um YOU can kind of think of it as
analogous to like, you know, differences in the way
people's hair color look um or, or other superficial
traits. Like we don't seem to think of those
as racial per se. So the question is why
do people have this experience pop out of this
constellation of features uh as race. And so the
idea is that um there's not a system looking
for those physical features, but instead systems that learn
about which physical features predict how people interact and
get along. So the idea is that there are
adaptations in the mind for categorizing people by their
alliances and that that system when it grows up
in a culture where certain physical features predict how
people interact and get along, like where do people
live, who has access to what resources things like
that, then that system will um pick up on
those physical features. And we can test that by
showing that when you um show that race is
not predictive of how people interact and get along.
So it's crossed with alliance membership um that you
can get categorization by race to go down uh
and to be inhibited in the cognitive system. So
basically, the mind is treating race as a socially
learned, socially constructed category. That's about anticipating patterns of
affiliation. And that's basically the, the, the relationship between
this alliance system and race.
Mhm. A and even when it comes to that
social categorization of race or in terms of race,
I mean, w we have to also to keep
in mind the fact that the way we understand
the concept of race and the different races we
recognize, I mean, it's very much as some sociologists
have been arguing, it's very much uh a result
of social and cultural inputs because even for example,
in the us, the different race categories or how
people from different origins have been categorized in terms
of their race has changed over time.
That's right. You can look historically um across cultures
within cultures. So, you know, turn of the century
being Irish was literally perceived as a race in
the United States. Um You know, if you look
in places, um you know, um where there's been
histories, sort of genocides or ethnic conflicts, the physical
distinctions between the groups. Um um uh FOR example,
in Rwanda, um would were actually just completely made
up, there were in fact no basis in reality.
And so, um it's pretty clear, the historical record,
the sociological record is fairly clear that if you
look at it, um the uh the alliances, the
affiliations, those dynamics dictate which physical features become important.
You don't need physical distinctions to have alliance differences.
Um And, and those can be projected or hallucinated
on. And there are many physical differences that are
not perceived as alliances even developmentally, um which is
a beautiful test of this idea. Um Even Children
learn um labels before they um learn who those
labels apply to. So if you show who to
an adults uh look like people of different races,
Children might not understand that those are significant differences
between those people. They won't notice it, they won't
remark on it. But if you give Children labels
that refer to um count classes of, of people,
so these are the XS, these are the Ys
Children immediately understand that it's relevant and important. They
remember it, they recall it. Um They seem to
infer its social significance even before they understand what
criteria place somebody into those categories. So they really
seem to go label first, alliance first um Not
which Q happens to go along with that. Yeah.
Mhm
And we, when we are dealing with alliance membership
specifically, does the way we consider the categorizations in
terms of race change is there and the effect
there.
Well, so um it depends what you mean. Um
There's a couple of ways to answer that question.
Um One is that um so traditionally, when people
had been measuring social categorization by race, they hadn't
been providing additional alliance information. Um And we're gonna
use alliance and coalition sort of interchangeably. We don't
really know all the details. But essentially, um if
you don't give people a specific acute social alliance,
like this is a group and here's another group
and this is their relationship, that kind of thing.
If you don't provide that people will default to
what are in their culture, the most relevant or
important alliance cues. And so for many of the
studies conducted um over the years in social psychology
and these social categorization studies, the most relevant alliance
dimension in the stimuli was race. So race was
always a feature of categorization in these studies, even
when it wasn't relevant. So even when people are
talking about what are they going to do on
a summer day or what is it like to
be at this university or something like that? So,
um so in that respect, um racial categorization seem
pretty immovable. But the crucial thing is that for
the alliance tracking system, part of its evolved function,
one of the things that has to do to
um to make its living as an evolved system
within our um evolved um design is to be
really good at tracking alliances, storing instances of alliances,
but then also figuring out which alliance is relevant
for this situation because there are many, many alliances.
But in any particular situation, only a subset of
those alliances are relevant for predicting how people interact.
And that's the point of the system, it's to
predict behavior, guide behavior. Um And so, one of
its design features needs to be the ability to
take all of the alliance cues that it is
stored, use some sort of criteria for establishing which
of all of those is most relevant in inhibiting
the use of the others. And so what we
have in our studies is evidence of that process
where if you show this previously diagnostic alliance to
race, but you show people now a specific context
where there's people of different races, but there's new
better alliance membership information. So here's one group, here's
another group, here's the way they're interacting can be
positive, it can be negative, it can be coordinations
in any case. What we have very good evidence
for is that the system can very easily take
the racial information, inhibit the use of it categorization
in many cases, goes completely away or it's reduced
by, you know, somewhere between a third to two
thirds. Um And in some cases, it's not even
happening while the new alliance cues are um are
very quickly picked up in ca base the basis
of categorization. So the answer to your question is
the relationship between race and alliance really depends on
if there's other better new alliance uh cues um
present in the stimuli. And if that's true, categorization
by race will go down. But if there's no
better alliance information, then categorization by race will be
a prepotent sort of default alliance cue on the
idea that in the world it is a relevant
alliance cue and the idea would be that to
the extent it's not relevant out in the world,
it would be no longer be quite as prepotent.
Um, AND in, in principle could be, um, it
could be something else. It wouldn't have to be
those particular cues you wouldn't even need, um, um,
something like race per se. Um, AND in, you
know, in certain places, um, that's, um, arguably it's,
there are other sort of most prepotent dimensions like,
you know, the tribe down the river or something
like that. It's not quite like the way we
think about race. So, yeah,
so uh while you were talking, the, there were
some ideas crossing my mind and I'm going to
say something and if I'm incorrect, please say so.
But I was thinking that uh is it correct
to say that perhaps when it comes to uh
making alliances, uh how we think about other people
in terms of being to protect allies or not?
I mean, of course, we look at people and
we see how they are different from us in
several different traits and some of them might fall
into different social categories related to age, gender, race
or any other sort of social category. But, and
when it comes to looking at people and seeing
the differences that exist between us and them, uh
and thinking about alliances, I mean, the fact that
we see that someone might have, I don't know
a different gender, different skin color or something like
that. Uh, AND we think about that in terms
of it being a good or a bad trait.
It is, uh, uh, it has a lot to
do with context. It's context dependent, right? Because it
is probably, at least when we are dealing with
alliance membership, it has a lot to do with
the people having traits that would be beneficial to
us or not. That, I mean, does this make
sense or?
Yeah, I mean, I think, I think if you
think about it from sort of a first principals
perspective, um and when we're actually doing some modeling
work, so Dan Conroy Beam, who is another um
faculty member at UC Santa Barbara and the psychology
department, um We're doing some modeling work on this.
But basically, um if you just imagine a world
where um like a simple world where we just
sort of think of traits as just ABC de,
you know, all the way, all the letters in
the alphabet and you just sort of think, well,
what would an organism or an agent? Um How
would they carve up the world? Um HOW would
a well designed organism, um carve up the world
um again, well designed meaning, you know, naturally selected.
So what would be the design of this alliance
tracking system? And what I would want to do
is it would want to look out in the
world and see, well, you know, um what likely
um um uh is the basis of cooper operation
that yields benefits to me. So, in a sense,
you know, in a world where there is no
conflict, there's no reason to exclude anybody from your
pool of cooperators to the extent they'll give you
resources to the extent that um they can generate
benefits, you know, gains and trade things like that.
And so, um there's no intrinsic reason in the
design of the system to sort of discriminate um
along any of those cues and there's no reason
to not have um as many people in your
cooper effort as possible. Now, you can add additional
principles and you can say, well, look as the
pool of cooperators gets bigger, it's harder to track
people's investment in the common good. And so you
get, you know, the free write of problem, those
kinds of things. And so you can start to
see where theories of sort of what's the, the
size of the group or identity that you belong
to. So their ideas in social psychology about sort
of optimal distinctiveness. And I think that that's a,
a very valid and nice way to think about
things. But I think it's underwritten by this sort
of deeper principle of um the trade off between
um um sort of being able to ascertain what's
happening um and monitor for it and um be
uh be benefited by a collective versus the strength
of the collective so a very large collective may
not care much about me. Give me many benefits,
but it's very powerful and there's a bit of
a trade off there. So then you start to
get into a basis of discrimination where you want,
uh, the people who are closer to you maybe
care more about you to be the people that
you're most in a group with. Or if they're
sort of different groups, like the, you have one
closer group and then one larger group, right? And
then you add something like conflict where people have
conflicts of interest, same people. Um um THE same
people want um the same things, right? So you
want something, I want something and we both can't
have it so excludable goods, rival goods um or,
you know, we something we have a misunderstanding or
just a conflict. Um uh You know, I take
something here as you take something online, you add
that in as well. And then all of a
sudden it becomes in agent's interests to um have
other agents really differentially exclude some uh in favor
of others. Um And so you, you add all
of those dynamics and, and then you can see
where um you very quickly get certain cues become
the things that mark the people that you feel
positively about versus the people you feel neutrally about
versus the people you feel negatively about. But the
important thing is the underlying calculation in principle is
based on these costs and benefit resource flows, benefit
flows, the superficial cues take up a lot of
our attention. So, is it about skin color? Is
it about um what people dress like? All those
things sort of take up our attention? Because those
are the things we're conscious of because they actually
distinguish between these alliances. Um But the, but the
idea is that below that superficial variation are these
very common deep principles in that from an engineering
perspective, from the perspective of describing the psychology and
then also the dynamics um those uh those dimensions
of costs and benefits uh are really what's important
for the evolved psychology.
And uh just to close the section on race
categorization, is there any evidence that it can be
lowered by cross categories that have nothing to do
with alliances?
Hm Yeah, this is a good question. So I've
been doing these um reducing racial categorization studies with
alliances for many, many years now. I mean, it's
been a decade and um really beautiful data, lots
of um different kinds of alliances. So positive alliances
like two groups, not in conflict, but each group
highly cooper within each group. Um And then other
situations where there's antagonism between groups and then other
situations where each group is just has opinions or
are coordinate. All of these things are print in
principle alliance cues and all these things produce this
expected effect of reducing categorization by race. And I
should point out not categorization by other social categories
like um sex or age, which is important because
it shows that it really seems to be something
about race and alliance, not just that alliance is
just cause you to not attend to any other
cross dimension like age, sex or race. It's really
specific to race. Um That's actually important just as
an aside because most theories of social categorization, at
least those that were most prevalent at the end
of the 20th century and early 21st century can't
account for that selective um pattern because on those
theories, um age, sex and race are all chronically
activated categories. So anyway, that's, that's sort of an
aside, um the question you're asking is um what
about non alliance categories? And the reason why you're
asking that is I realized after all these beautiful
studies had been done um that there was one
counter hypothesis that I never tested against and that
could falsify the entire account. And so I thought
in a, in a very pian way, I, I
needed to try to falsify my own theory. And
so, um so I just mentioned categorization by race
would go down when categorization by sex and age,
for example, would not. Um And specifically when it
was through alliances. So when we would show alliance
stimuli in the um in the studies, so there's
one group and another group in their alliances that
specifically was causing categorization by race to go down
and not sex or age. And we were using
that to infer the activation of the alliance system.
But what I realized was that it could just
be that categorization by race is just more flexible
now, that would not be consistent with the past
work. But at least it would be consistent with
my pattern of results. Selective decrease in was compared
to age or sex under the exact same experimental
conditions. So what I wanted to do is do
the exact same experimental structure where instead of the
social categorization dimension being alliances, it was something that
there was no alliance information. And so what I
used is um um whether you're older or younger
siblings. So um some people were older siblings, some
people were younger siblings, they were visually marked. So
whether they were older or younger, they had different
color t-shirts, the conversation was about being older or
younger sibling. I made sure to minimize the alliance
cues. So there was no information about the older
siblings or the younger siblings sort of teaming up
together, roughly speaking. Um And so this was really
important to show that uh categorization by race would
not be selectively reduced by these non alliance stimuli.
And um fortunately for the theory, um you know,
and you know, just um to editorialize for me
personally, it was nice to see but you know,
what, what matters is is what the data tell
you. Um That in fact, categorization by race was
not affected at all by crossing race with this
uh older or younger sibling dimension. Um But people
categorize very strongly by this older or younger sibling
dimension as well. So, categorization by both sex and
race were unaffected by it. So it's a nice
um example of um um taking a hypothesis and
not only confirming it with a number of studies,
but then also um once you've confirmed it actually
starting to try to actively falsify it. And this
was a nice example of failing to falsify um
the hypothesis. So the hypothesis um is getting more,
more support. So that's, that's the the answer um
for why um we ran those studies and why
um categorization by race um is not affected by
these other things. Yeah.
So changing topics, I would like to talk a
little bit about uh conflict and peace uh from
an evolutionary perspective here. So, first of all, from
an evolutionary perspective, what drives intergroup conflict?
Yeah, I mean, what drives intergroup conflict is um
in some sense, it's very um um very simple
things. So things like safety, um access to resources,
worrying about your safety, worrying about access to resources,
right? So it can be offensive and defensive. Um
And it's about social relationships. So um so people
have things that other people want, you worry about
other people taking things that you have. Um And
especially as we talked about before there can be
conflicts of interest between individuals and once that occurs,
those individuals are incentivized from an evolutionary perspective to
get allies in support of them in, in comparison
to the their, the people they're competing with. And
so that sort of sets up a dynamic where
each agent is incentivized um and will do better
to the extent that they can shore up allies
in defense of themselves against the people that they
have conflicts of interest with. Um And so, and
so, yeah, so, um at every scale of social
organization, the idea is that really what's driving um
conflict, including multi Asian conflict are pretty simple, fundamental
things like concerns about safety concerns about resources. Um
YOU know, and like, you know, resources, it's easy
to sort of, I, I often worry when we
talk about resources, particularly sort of in the evolutionary
social sciences, people sort of think about, you know,
like luxury watches and things, but it's, you know,
uh you know, it's like food and like, you
know, things you actually need to. Um And in,
in a world where there's not um police or
military and even in a world where there is
police and military, there are many people who don't
have access to those crucial resources um and access
to those resources, the function of social relationships and
social power. And so that's what conflict is about.
Um ALL the way through it still is today.
Um You know, even even with um organized large
scale social world uh institutions. Um There's still massive
differences in access to resources that are based on
power. Um And that's true um for, from an
of all perspective at every scale.
But OK, so that's about uh conflict. But then
do we also have a good understanding of perhaps
the psychological mechanisms that drive peace and reconciliation between
groups?
Yeah, I mean, I would say we don't have
a good understanding of psychological mechanisms generally at a
certain level of specificity. Um But I think in
terms of broadly how they would be working or
what they're attentive to then yes, we do. So
at a very high level, the answer would be
yes. Um And it's, it goes back to what
we talked about earlier, which is that from a
first principal's perspective, there are always benefits to expanding
the pool of cooper operation if people are willing
to um uh trade off. Um So there are
things like, you know, variation in resources. So if
you get and I enter in a relationship, uh
and we're both, you know, hunter gatherers and hunting
is high variance returns, maybe you're successful one day,
I'm successful another, it has nothing to do with
how hard we try. It's just sometimes the animals
near you, sometimes the animal is near me. Um,
WE can buffer that variability in the world by
entering into a mutually beneficial exchange relationship. And so
there are many, many situations where those kinds of
mutually beneficial exchange relationships, um, can be incentivized. And
so from the perspective of agents who find themselves
in a world where there are conflict, uh, related
groups where there's violence or, um, sub violence but
still host in positions, things like, um, you know,
people don't like each other. People are, um, trying
to sabotage each other, uh, in whatever way they're
still, uh, in principle of all the design for
other people looking at that and saying, well, it
could be different. Maybe the people who are fighting
each other, maybe they don't have to fight with
me and maybe there's a basis of cooper operation
that can transcend the, this, this pattern of violence.
And so the idea of imagining counterfactual alliance memberships,
imagining a different basis for trying to make it
through the world by and not getting hurt and
making sure you have enough stuff um that is
baked into the design of the system. And so,
um and also not taking groups for granted. So,
for example, um and Mike mcauliffe and I have
a, um A B BS commentary on um really
nice um target article by Luke Gachi about um
the evolution of uh peace. And uh and one
of the things we talk about is so from,
from the perspective of, um, again, sort of in
a hunter gatherer society, um um non um a
non wear society, um people who are in a
group, um and some of the people in that
group are sort of rating another group. Um The
people who are not doing the rating, who are
not getting benefits from the rating um are incentivized
to not frame the situation as all of us
in this group group A are attacking group B,
right? It's actually a subset of us. Um So
that's an example of where the evolved system is
also not taking for granted the group framing. Um
And so it wants to narrow down the scope
of the belligerence to the individuals actually doing the
belligerent actions. Um AND not the broader category. Um
And that's part of the, the evolved psychology of
peace and reconciliation is to, for those people who
are technically in group A to say, look, other
group members of group A are doing bad things.
Uh It's imposing a cost in group B. Um
And uh and they can um contact group B,
for example, they can talk, contact the belligerents in
group A, they can just talk among other people
who are in their same position and non belligerent
in group A and sort of negotiate about what
to do going forward. Um So those interests of
those people are an example of the kinds of
designs in the mind that should be there for
uh group uh uh group based um conflict reduction
and reconciliation. So, um and again, it just comes
down to this issue of um conflict is very
costly. Um And it causes retaliation. People don't like
it when you hurt them and when you take
their things. And so um the the people who
differentially benefit from that um have an incentive to
expand the class of people who believe they're in
a conflict with one another. But there's always countervailing
um interest for the people who are not benefiting
from that conflict to curtail the scope of who
is considered in a conflict with one another. And
I think a lot of current and historical conflicts
um can be understood as this tension of the
people who benefit from a conflict want to obscure
who's actually benefiting how widely the conflict in fact
goes. Um And it's in those people's interests to
sort of obscure and make very broad the the
the classes of people who are in conflict. Um
And, and then there's this countervailing force to sort
of narrow it down to who is actually benefiting
who's actually doing the violence um as a way
to curtail that and to possibly um undo some
of the dynamics that are leading to that conflict
and violence.
So I want to ask to ask you something
that particularly in the context of my show makes
a lot of sense to ask because over the
years, I've had interviews with people uh that place
themselves on either side of this ongoing debate in
the anthropology of war and peace between the people
who think that war is very ancient in our
revolutionary history. That is the deep rooters. I mean,
I've interviewed people like uh Richard Wrangham, Zar GT
Raymond Hames. And I'm also about to release an
interview with Luke Lo Ai. And then on the
other side, people who think that war is much
is a much more recent phenomenon. Uh uh I
mean, I've interviewed people like Brian Ferguson, uh uh
uh Douglas Fry and others. So do you think
that from your perspective, what you said there about
conflict, peace and reconciliation should also inform this debate
or not?
Um Well, it depends on what the people are
debating about and why. Um I think um one
doesn't wanna over attribute or psychoanalyze debates too much.
Um But there's different levels at which a debate
can be happening. And I think 11 possible assumption
going into a debate like is war ancient or
not is the issue of how inevitable is war
and conflict. Um And I think that if you,
um I think one should be careful about, um
assuming that that's a straightforward thing where if war
is recent, then it means war is avoidable. Um
But if it's long standing, it isn't. Um I
think that's oversimplified and that's sort of wrong because
um actually, to the extent that conflict is a
long standing element of human evolutionary environments because conflict
is costly, we would expect all kinds of very
good design to avoid conflict. We see this in
biotic conflicts all the time. Right. So there's a
large literature called the Asymmetric War of attrition where
animals, um, basically avoid the cost of escalating conflict
by doing things like, you know, very ritualized, you
know, some sort of like deer, sort of walking
back and forth in parallel to assess size differences.
And if one's much bigger than another, they, they,
they'll just the, the smaller one will back down,
both are doing that because there are selection pressures
to avoid conflict because conflict is costly. If you
can, if you can basically find the information that
you would eventually get at the end of a
very costly conflict before the conflict even starts. There's
good selection pressures for to do that on both
parties sides. So that's an example of die a
conflict over something like territory is a long standing
part of deer psychology. And because of that, uh,
there is extra design to avoid the cost of
that conflict. So analogously, if we say something like
large scale conflict and what counts as large scale,
that's a definition in there are just facts on
the matter on the ground of how many people,
historically, how many hominids lived historically, what were the
scales of conflict? Those are, you know, facts that
we can establish either deductively or looking at the
arch archaeological record or possibly genetic record. Um, AND
we'll just find out what we find out. But
in terms of this issue of if large scale
conflict, something like war, um, was pervasive. That really
doesn't mean that war is currently more inevitable because
of the design of the mind. For example, um,
if to the degree large scale conflict has been
a long standing aspect of human psychology, we would
expect more design to avoid the cost of conflict
as well. Um, SO, um, oh, yeah, I'll just,
I'll leave it at that. Yeah.
Ok. Fair enough. So, but we've been talking uh,
here today and in our previous conversation about social
groups or groups a lot. So, uh but do
we have a good understanding of what the human
mind is really representing when it represents a social
group?
Yeah. No, the short answer is no, we don't.
Uh And, and really, I mean, if you even,
you know, what is the human mind representing when
it represents objects? Um Even that we don't really
know, I mean, we have certain ideas about like
early level perceptual things. But um once you start
thinking about, well, the rest of the mind has
to use an object representation. Um How does that
work? It's still very, very uh difficult and we
still know very, very little. Um And so we're
in that same boat for something like a social
group. I mean, one of the papers that I've
done a B BS paper um and other people
are doing things like this is to sort of
just start to take this question seriously about what
are the representations and this is based on a
long history and sort of cognitive science, for example,
like people, people like um David Marr and Mar
before Mar Marvin Minsky, um asking really what are
the representations? And so um my contribution is a
small little contribution, but it's a contribution to also
just sort of say we need to start asking
these kinds of questions. And so um what, what
the proposal is is that um there's something called
um the frame problem um in, in artificial intelligence
and cognitive science, which is sort of um an
event happens. Um And then um the question that
is faced is given event X, how has the
world changed? So what changes when event X happens?
And so um that's not a trivial information processing
problem for a robot or a human being. Um
And so, um uh addressing that has been a
long standing issue and there's no such thing as
a general solution to that because it depends on
um you know, uh um what domain you're talking
about. So if I knock over your mother's priceless
antique vase, uh you know, for the physical system,
what follows from that is there's a bunch of
glass on the ground, but for something like a
social system, um you are gonna start feeling differently
about me. Um YOU might be angry at me,
other people need to represent sort of both of
those things. So the physical system and the social
system you know, both need to be activated for
that for that kind of a thing. Um And
so this issue of how do events change the
structure of the world? What is it, what is
anticipated at time? Two, given an event at time,
one is fundamental to group representation on this idea
in my paper. And one idea is that what
makes a group representation is not just a DTIC
interaction where one agent interacts with another. So imposes
a cost on, so a imposes a cost on
B um that is just a diode interaction um
or a, you know, gives a benefit to B
um that's still just a die interaction, it can
go back and forth but it's still just die.
Um And so a long standing issue has been
uh how do you get uh multi agent psychology
to scale up from um from die um things
and there's lots of species that have die reasoning
but don't have sort of group based reasoning. Um
And so one idea is that really what changes
is the involvement of a third agent. So um
if you and I, if you and I uh
are allies, you know, and somebody comes and hurts
me, um You may react to that event of
somebody hurting me, even though you haven't been directly
affected at all. It's an indirect social consequence. It's
the term for it, it's an indirect social consequence.
And so the fact that third parties can become
involved in a dieted conflict just by virtue of
their background relationship with the, the die agents involved
that um on this model is sort of the
crucial difference between die and multi agent um representations.
And so the paper goes into details about um
for a conflict, what would a group representation be.
Um And so the sort of idea is that
there's only um four ways that a third party
can be um drawn into a conflict. Um And
we won't, I won't go through all the details
here. But basically, um the idea is that group
membership is the assignment of agents to particular roles
within those four tragic interaction types. And so, um
it's uh it's a, um it's an idea that
what it means for something to be a group
is uh is an expectation of behaving in a
certain way in tria interactions where one agent is
coming to the aid or attacking um another agent
uh because of some initial cost imposition, the same
model also applies to benefit conferral. Um Although we
haven't published that work yet. Um And we've done
some agent based modeling, Dan Conroy Beam. And I
um on, if you kind of plug these rules
about roles and triads um into agent, into agents
in a, in a Asian based model world, do
you get something like groups emerging? And in fact,
you do. So, um it's a partial answer to
what is the mind representing when it represents a
group. Um It's not complete um But it's a
literal, uh as opposed to sort of metaphorical or
descriptive account because currently, um a lot of the
things that are talked about, which are accurate and
valid, but they're not literal mechanistic descriptions. So something
like, you know, these people belong to the scripts,
you sort of put them on a container and
it's sort of left implicit. Well, what, what does
it mean to assign agents to that container? Um
And when you start to have to flesh that
out mechanistically, as you would, for example, in building
a robot that can see and reason about groups
and understand groups. Um You realize that you actually
have to plug in these fairly strange um low
level um uh rules like, uh you know, if,
if you and I are friends and somebody comes
and hurts me, you're gonna come and hurt them
if they hurt me. Um You know, so that
kind of their literal um contingent behavioral uh reaction
is something that's probably somewhere in the system. So
that's, that's the example of the kind of thing
that the mind is representing when it represents a
group. Um It's a behavior based uh framework.
Mhm. So you've also already mentioned there how having
an understanding of how we represent groups would apply
to the study of conflict. So, uh I have
another kind of question here then that perhaps from
a theoretical perspective is even uh deeper. So what
are cognitive processes? So we're always talking about cognitive
processes, cognitive mechanism. So what are they exactly? And
how do you think we should approach their study?
Because you have also this very interesting paper where
you talk about integrating social ecological and evolutionary approaches
to a having a better understanding of what you
call the instrumental nature of cognitive processes. So, could
you explain that?
Sure. And it's not something that I just think
too. I mean, you know, this is something that
is uh has been worked out on already. Um
I would say, um and so, yeah, what do
you mean by a cognitive process? And I think
the simple answer is, well, what do we already
think of when we think about a process? Um
WHEN we think about the body from the neck
down? Right? Um So, and there's fairly simple things
that follow um from just using that analogy that
quickly become nontrivial in the case of psychology and
pretty quickly diverged from what we are currently doing
in psychology. So, one of those things is, you
know, as a body you experience, well, like, you
know, I, I raise my hand because I want
to, right? Um But I want to is not
a good explanation of, well, how does it work?
Right. Um And uh so because, you know, if,
if I can't raise my arm, what do you
tell me? Well, try harder, Dave, you know, like
that you would not be a good doctor. Um
If that was, if that was your explanation, you
know. So, so Dave tries to lift his arm
and, you know, one of those words isn't working,
you know, like Dave isn't working or, you know,
the arm isn't working, that's fine. That's an explanation
of it. But um at some level, but it's
not an adequate mechanistic understanding. It's certainly not the
kind of thing you would be satisfied with if
you wanted to go in and fix the fact
that I couldn't lift my arm, for example. So
you need an idea that, well, um there's this
intuitive experience of sort of unity that there's an
agent who wants to do things who believes things,
you know, this is something that people call our
intuitive theory of mind or um Dan Dennett talks
about this is the intentional stance. Um And he
works and I have a paper about modularity where
we talk about this is the intentional level of
analysis in all cases, it's just sort of this
highest level everyday intuitive way of thinking about people
as agents and what they want, what they believe.
And it's fine. It's correct in the sense of
it describes, you know, Dave wants to raise his
hand, that's why he raised his hand. Um But
in the same way, if we want to understand,
well, how did I raise my hand again from
the neck down? We understand there's lots of systems
and so Dave still exists. But Dave, if you
go down a level, we break Dave up into
lots of different systems with lots of different functions.
Um, AND what you wanna do is you want
to have an adequate account of how I raise
my hand. You don't worry about. Well, we're only
gonna let there be three systems. Right. We don't
even really worry about where does one system start
in one system end? We don't worry so much
about, you know, um uh does it feel hard
to raise my hand or not? So, there's all
these sort of like, um uh things kind of
in the way of just getting to the simple
fact of the matter of, well, there has to
be like mechanical stuff inside the body that makes
it possible for there to be this thing where
Dave wants to raise his hand and is able
to raise his hand. Um And so, well, how
do those work? Well, and you look at the
history of physiology and the history is very interesting
because, um not to too, too long, but aggression,
but people had access to physical bodies for as
long as people have been around and scientifically, you
know, for a very long time, if you look
at, um, it's very interesting to look at the
history of physiology. So you look at something like,
you know, fifth century physiologists, um like Galen. Um
THEY'RE, they're talking about like mechanisms like moisture darkness.
Um You can kind of see that they have
an idea that they need to apply function to
the body. Um But they're not doing things like
nephridial, right? Or like uh uh or microtubules or,
or things that are um really detailed descriptions of
functions and sub functions in the body. Um And
the point of saying that is, you can't just
look at the physical system and infer the function
you need some idea of what's the broader context
in which this thing is, is is operating. Um
And so when we talk about um well, Dave
lifts his arm, right? And is able to and
wants to um there is a physical level description,
that's the, that's the physical stance. Um As Annie
Wertz and I talk about it, that's the implementation
level of analysis. But there's also this middle functional
level, this is the the functional level where that
was what allowed physiology to become uh a progressing
science where people realize, well, the function of the
heart is to pump blood. And all of a
sudden all the uh material things they were looking
at why they were structured, the way they were
made sense and even the way they saw the
material things changed, right? They understood this thing was
not just incidental, it was a pump and the
fact that it was moist was incidental, the fact
that it was dark incidental. So the units of
function changed. Um And so just as uh so
for the case of raising my arm, we need
a middle functional level description of, you know, various
systems that execute certain functions about arm position um
about um planning system. So what it means that
I wanted to is there's some representation and some
system about the location of the limb um representation
of a future state of the limb that corresponds
to lifting, right. And then there has to be
some system that takes that representation and translates it
into a series of electrochemical signals that eventually lead
to muscles moving the arm. That's a, that's really
nontrivial. Um If you wanted to build a robot
that could do that, it would take you a
while, but it's that middle abstract functional level. Um
THAT'S also really important. And so you have three
levels at the end of the day, you've got
the intuitive intentional level. Dave wants to raise his
arm, he's able to, you can look down at
the meet the implementation level. Um AND you can
look at this middle functional level and exactly. So
that's all of that is the preamble to the
simple answer then which is you do the exact
same thing with mental processes. You say, look, you
know, people believe things, they wanna do things, uh
they intend to do things. But there's a level
of description that is above the the meat in
the mind, you know, the neurons and the electrochemical
signals that's this functional level description and it's of
systems and you don't worry about how many there
are, there could be billions, there could be three.
You don't worry about that. You just try to
say, well, what are all the mechanical steps that
would be required? And at every point, the point
is you try to expand on what is currently
known into more and more detail. Um And so
there's a big long history and psychology um of
avoiding that middle level because it's not intuitive. Um
It's also controversial. Um And people like to have
evidence about things. Um And it's the level that
has the least evidence because in a lot of
cases, you have to speculate about what the abstract
functions are before you go looking for them. Um
As uh Marvin Minsky put it, you can't um
look for something till you have the idea of
it. Um And I think a lot of the
history of psychology and cognitive science has been hindered
because um of what G Gert Geens would call
defensive theorizing, which is, it's very easy to avoid
um making claims at that middle level. Um uh
It's easier to just talk about what physically exists.
It's easier to just talk about behavior, it's easier
to talk about the intentional level. Um And because
it's difficult to um operate at that middle level,
there's a lot of uncertainty. Um It's also easy
to glom onto distinctions that may not matter very
much. So, for example, is there one system or
two systems, you know, or is a system completely
isolated from another system? Um You know, you would
never uh start off asking how does a body
work or how does a car work um by,
by really glomming onto there have to be two
systems or we have to show, you know, 90%
degree of isolation for us to count these two
things as being separate systems. Like those are sort
of backwards ways of doing it. You just don't
worry about that and you say, well, what are
the functions? What would they, what would it have
to be? Um And so anyway, that's um I'm
going on and on, but basically, the history of
psychology is sort of um interesting. Um It's deeply
interesting um and it's all um repeating the history
of physiology here where that middle abstract level is
crucial. It's very difficult and it's kind of being
um uh it's emerging towards the end of what
has been a very um productive century and a
half of science, but it's still uh not very
um established um despite um um despite that century
and a half. Yeah.
So uh please correct me if I'm wrong. But,
but a a as you were explaining all of
that one thing that came to my mind is
if all of that would connect in any way
or relate in any way with discussions surrounding a
free will beca I mean, I'm asking you that
for several reasons, one of them was uh because
when it came to the part where you mentioned,
oh, I want to do something, I want to
raise my arm or something like that. I mean,
that, that sort of level of cognitive A AAA
G control that we have. I mean, in a
way reminds me of debate surrounding free will. Then
the, the second reason is that just uh earlier
this year, two very interesting books came out when
by Kevin Mitchell and the other by Robert Sapolsky,
arguing from two opposite sides from an evolutionary and
biological and neuroscientific perspective about free will. And also,
I mean, you told me that you're working with
Christian List, right? The previous guest on the show
as well. He has a very interesting book on
Free Will on that issue. So, I, I mean,
would, would there be a connection here or
not? Yeah, the argument here. Yeah. The, the paper
is with Christian List and Thomas Hills and we're,
we're, we're quickly trying to get it out. So,
um I'll sort of brief allude to it. I
mean, the bottom line is that um the argument
is that um free will is real. Um BUT
it's mechanical. So, so, uh so, so uh so
I can unpack that a little bit. So the
idea is that when you say something like, you
know, I want to um raise my arm and
I'm free to do so. Um THAT is a
representation of an evolved organism. And you want to
ask the question, what is that evolved organism mean?
When it's saying it's free to move its arm.
And the argument is that um what it means
that I'm free to do something is essentially that
um um nobody is coercing me. So you didn't,
you know, put a gun to my head, right?
So I did, it means that you weren't forcing
me to do it. It also means something like,
you know, maybe, you know, my arm gets injured,
right? And I can't control it anymore. So, um
so that's another situation where I no longer have
free freedom or the use of my arm, right?
So from the perspective and evolve organism, the body
um that it's composed of and sort of its
planning mechanisms, its representational systems, there would be selection
to represent um its own ability to um determine
what it's gonna do in the future. So, and
there's just some things that it has, it has
more or less of that ability to do. So
if you hold a gun to my head, it's
my planning representational systems matter less because you've constrained
my options because of the strong cost benefit nature
of that. Um So for example, you know, I
can't, I'm not going nothing I do um about
sort of ruminating about, well, what should I have
done in the future? Um There's no way for
my information processing systems to intervene in that kind
of situation, right? Um The, the, the, the point
of maximum difference in whether or not I do
the behavior is to get you and the gun
off of my head, right? Um That's sort of
the point of maximum intervention. So you want, if
you want to change the outcome, you change the
point, the gun at my head, not, you know,
my my planning systems, um same thing with a
broken arm. So if I can't use my arm
because it's broken, you can't coerce me to like
use my arm, I can't will my way to
use my broken arm, right? Like it's just broken,
we have to just let it heal. And so
the idea is that in our everyday intuitive folk
psychology, we have a representation of agency. And that's
specifically because agents can um make decisions and we
can intervene on agents, whether it's other agents or
ourselves by changing the state of certain planning systems,
certain motivational systems, um that's all coherent. Um But
then there are some aspects of the world that
those planning uh representational changes can affect, like holding
the gun to my head or um the broken
arm. And so the idea is that um to
put it pretty simply the intentional system or the
intentional level has a slot for an agency and
then a slot for a mechanism and the agency
and the mechanism are two different things. Um And
so things that I'm free to do are sort
of things that go in the agency slot, you
know, like I'm free to, like, decide to wake
up early in the morning or not. Um I'm
not free, like, I don't have free will to
sort of, um, you know, um, um, you know,
will my arm into being not broken, right. So
that goes in the mechanism slot. And so the
idea is that um where the idea of free
will comes from is this idea of distinguishing between
those situations where interventions of, of treating an agent
like an intentional being, like changing motivations, changing desires,
beliefs are effective or not. And when they're effective,
it goes in the agency slot. When they're not
effective, it goes in the mechanism slot. And so
that intentional level system views agency and mechanism as
c as in as um as mutually exclusive, right?
What it means that something is an agent or
is free means that it's not mechanical, right? It's
not just billiard ball causation. And uh the argument
with Christian list and Thomas Hills um is that,
that's a psychological explanation for where incompatibility comes from.
So incompatible is the idea that free will and
determinism are not compatible with one another. Um Of
course, it's complicated because, you know, it's, this has
been a long standing um debate for, for as
long as there's been recorded history, the need for
free will so it'll take like a couple more
minutes to to unpack it. But basically the other
part is um we were just talking about this
middle functional level, right? The functional level analysis, abstract
function. And that unlike what we were just talking
about a second ago is probably driven by something
like an evolved artifact psychology. So it's sort of
saying, you know, you're just treating people like robots,
right? You're saying, look, the person has a bunch
of software, it's like abstract if then rules that
was sort of turing's point, right? Like you can
just any computational system can be described as like
a complicated set of contingent rules that are abstract.
Um And so that artifact system views everything that
people do as a bunch of software. So, um
and in that sense, so Dave decides to um
pick up his arm and he can, I'm free
to use my arm from the perspective of the
artifact system, from the perspective of this functional level
of analysis. Everything you do is deterministic, right? Or
it's mechanical and we can put aside determinism for
a second, but just say it's mechanical. Um So
from the artifact system uh mechanism and free will
are not incompatible with each other, right? So, in
fact, in order to be free, in order for
a robot to say, hey, look, I'm free to
do this, that's actually a bunch of mechanical steps.
It's a representation of what we just talked about.
Which is, the robot is representing, it has not
been coerced, right? Um That, uh, it can change
this outcome if it were to, for example, um,
have a different, um, waiting of something like, you
know, costs in the future, you know, so like
I'm free to change when I wake up in
the morning. Um, AND what that means is I
can represent that if I want to get more
work done, I'm gonna have to sort of, you
know, do something differently. I can, you know, I
can make a plan about how to do that,
right? And so that's all mechanical steps when I
say that it's all mechanical steps. So you have
one system, the artifact system, the functional level of
analysis treating free will as mechanical. So that's compatible.
So there's this long history of people having a
compatible list intuition about free will that free will
and determinism or mechanical world um are consistent with
one another. But then that's con contrasted with the
output of our theory of mind system, the intentional
level where free will and mechanism are completely opposed
to one another. And so our argument in this
paper, it's sort of an argument is we have
the, we, we have the, it's the meta problem
of free will. Why does anybody think there's a
problem of free will to begin with? And this
is sort of borrowing from the meta problem of
consciousness, right? Why do people think there's a problem
of consciousness to begin with. And the argument is
that you have two different onto or two different
evolved systems for carving up the world. One is
viewing the world in terms of agency and it's
agency that's inconsistent with mechanism. Then there's another system
that is just viewing the world as everything is
a mechanism. And those are two different systems that
can be going on inside of our heads at
the same time, maybe they're stronger in 11 system
is stronger in some people than in other people,
but they give completely conflicting, um, uh outputs in
terms of the compatibility between free will and, and
mechanical slash deterministic systems. Um And the argument is
that, that's probably the psychology underlying this, this whole
free will debate and why it feels like free
will is a paradox because I don't know about
you Ricardo. But even me, sometimes I wake up
in the morning and I'm like, I feel like
more of a compatible and sometimes, you know, late
at night, I feel like less of a, less
of a compatible list. I mean, you know, even
within the same person in, in, there's nice work,
um, empirical work being done on, you know, examining
to what degree people are or aren't. Um, AND
it's important. Um, AND, and we're finding out a
lot, but basically, um, the argument is that this
is an example of where we've had this long
standing philosophical issue. But we can actually describe the
psychology of where it's coming from, you know, where
the psychology is coming from is essentially that we
have two different evolved systems that are following different
rules and they're output conflicting answers about the same
question essentially. And that's, that's a perfect recipe for
um uh for having something that feels paradoxical or
unsolvable. And so the answer actually is that the,
the, the way out of the philosophical problem is
to understand the psychological mechanisms, understand their logic. Such
that one can understand why there feels like a
paradox, why it doesn't feel unanswerable. There's a few
more details and we'll save some of those for
the paper. But that's, but that's, that's the answer
to the free will problem.
No, no. That, that's really fascinating. And by the
way, if you're open to it, uh whenever the
paper is out next year or so, I would
love to have you back on the show also
with Doctor Christian List. Uh BECAUSE uh it seems
really fascinating and I've had my own journey when
it comes to free will because up until late
2020 I was a full-blown determinist. But then I
read Doctor List's book and I read him on
the show and I was like, OK, so perhaps
there are a few things that I have to
consider here. So he was one of the first
people that actually help, helped me deconvert from the
Church of the Truth. And and then now more
recently with Kevin Mitchell's book and a few other
people I thought with, uh, I mean, I have
at least a more nuanced view of free will.
I, I, I'm not sure. I, I'm still not
completely sure if, uh, with the degree we have
free will, let's say. But, yeah, I'm more sold
on it now.
Yeah, I think it's, it's also, I mean, to
be clear too, like, I don't think in this
paper, I don't think either side of the debate
is, is um, is guiltless or, or there's sort
of corrections on both sides because you can say
sort of, well, it's free will and illusion. And
there's a version of which that there is, that's
right and wrong just very briefly. One version is,
if you think that the way of the mechanical
system works is at some point there's like a
little ghost that's sort of like doing something non
material, then that's wrong, right? If that's what you
think free will, it means we have free will.
But the argument is that that was never a
coherent understanding of what free will is to begin
with. The idea is that what's a coherent and
representation of what free will? Is it something like
what I talked about earlier, which is, it's a
mechanical system whose job is for an evolved work
to basically assess what is, what is the um
what are the kind of events that uh give
me the maximum uh leverage uh for future interventions
is this a situation where I can change outcomes
by changing um motivation planning systems inside me inside
other people, by convincing them talking to them. Or
is this something where that's not possible? It's just
like a broken bone, right? Um And so that's
what the free will representation is. If that's what
you understand the free will representation to be, then
yes, we have it. But if you understood free
will, having free will to mean there's a ghost
that pokes on the mechanical systems at the functional
level of analysis, then we don't have it. So
it's like many of these things where we just
have to unpack it just a little bit more.
Um Otherwise, if you just say is free will
real or not, you can have an endless debate
because what you mean by free will, what the
sides mean in that is in that issue um
is um is unclear. Um There's also an evolutionary
mismatch just very briefly. Um That, that's the final
part that's sort of, I think fueling the confusion,
which is that we never evolved in a world
where we could know all the mechanical steps in
our mind. So, in that sense, knowing that science
can give us a purely billiard ball, mechanical um
description of how we do everything that's not something
our mind have ever evolved to deal with. So,
in other words, from an evolution perspective the idea
that everything can be placed in the mechanism slot
in, out of the agency slot, even in theory,
right? For the intentional system is an evolutionary novelty.
And so I think rightly so people sort of
feel worried about that, right? Because if I'm mechanical
from an of all being perspective, like you can
manipulate me, right? There's all these examples of like
neuroscientists coming in and like doing stuff and that's
true, right? Like we are mechanical. So like everything
we do in principle could be manipulated and that's
a reasonable concern for an evolved organism. So the
i the concern that free will goes away um
isn't crazy from this perspective of this evolved system,
from the the perspective of this evolved um concern
about manipulation. So again, the the point is um
we can understand uh conceptually why everybody is taking
the position they're taking, we can understand even the
misunderstanding and we can understand the motivations behind it.
So the answer is there's not a single answer,
it's just that there's a lot of pieces and
people were sort of talking at each other from
cross purposes. And at the end of the day,
we still don't want people to be manipulated. Um
But, you know, if we learn enough about how
the mind works, if stuff's broken, we can fix
it, for example. Uh But these are the issues
of like, you know, when we're done with psychology,
what are the implications? And we're still a long
way off from that. So, yeah,
great. So, let's talk now about uh David Pins
off and Marty Eelin S paper on their alliance
theory of political belief systems. I mean, I'm asking
you about this, the reason is that you've commented
on it. So, uh and um I mean, basically
I have two different questions to ask you. So
if, if they're right with their argument, what do
you think would be the challenges to current political
science and political psychology that would stem from
it? Yeah. Well, and I want to start up
by saying, um you know, I'm not, I, I
have a foot in political psychology, but I'm certainly,
it's not my area of expertise. Um And so
I want to uh qualify everything I say with
that. Um um THEIR argument just to sort of
recapitulate for people who may not be familiar with
it is that there's been a long history in
the behavioral sciences and particularly political science, um political
psychology to look at um partisanship from the perspective
of ideologies. So, um so from a us perspective,
for example, you know, Republicans and Democrats, they just
hold different ideologies. So certain ideologies like, you know,
concern about um fairness, um concern about um you
know, um um the sanctity of life, for example,
um or um the sanctity of um you know,
not starving to death, like those kinds of things.
So like kind of abstract principles. Um THEIR argument
is that sort of been the currency of theorizing
in political science um in political psychology. Um And
what they do in this paper is they basically
just say, well, look, if you take this ideology
principle based perspective and you really look at, well,
what are the policies that, um, people are supporting
or not supporting? It? Sort of doesn't, um, it
doesn't quite work, right. So, um, and this is
something that a lot of political satire and commentary
sort of traffics in which is to say, well,
look, you know, if you um really think life
is very precious, then like, what's your attitude about
war? Right. Um So, you know, if you're anti
abortion because you think life is precious. Well, what
about sending people off to war? Um More pointedly,
people point out um Well, what about like, you
know, fertility clinics, but that also kill a lot
of embryos, like, are you for that as well?
Right. Are you for um um are you for
um uh you know, uh prophylactic? So, birth control
contraception that will prevent um unwanted death as well.
And if you sort of, and in this, the
argument, the pins off argument is that this applies
broadly. This is not just, you know, anti aortic
attitudes that if you really push on the attitude
and you say, well, what would, again, we can
do a thing of like, if there was a
robot that actually was the program was, you know,
protect life, what attitudes, opinions, policies would it support?
And if you follow that logic versus what do
people actually do those things look very different. And
so their argument is that, um, ideologies, even many
principles are sort of a readout of a much
more, sort of complicated, but in another way, simple,
um, sort of as we talked about, sort of
an alliance psychology where people sort of look out
in the world, look at what are their interests,
what norms are serving their interests. Um We can
unpack that a little bit because that's one of
the issues with their idea. But basically, their idea
is that um uh interests of people are um
what's driving the content of ideologies. And so what
people are usually expressing when they're talking about ideologies
is a content that continues to support the growing
rights or protections of the people that people sort
of treat as their allies or people that they're
concerned about. Um And so this is the sort
of pins off argument is that ideologies are sort
of instrumental. Um And they call it, you know,
propaganda basically from the perspective of uh an objective
uh outside uh maybe objective, but we'll call it
objective from, from an objective perspective. Um These are
sort of propagandistic biases that people use um to
say, look, you know, the other side is so
bad, they're not doing a principled thing, we're principled.
And here's the principles that we uphold and their
argument is that both sides are doing that. And,
um, and they, but they both sides sort of
seem to be operating as if they're principle based,
whereas the other side isn't and their argument is
in both cases, they're not really being principle based.
They're just sort of choosing allies to focus on
for some of the reasons we talked about earlier.
So that's all, I'll, I'll leave it at that
as a summary. Yeah.
So that's the summary. And you've already pointed there
to perhaps one or two aspects of it that
you disagree with. But before we get into your
disagreement, if they're right, what would you think would
be the implicate, the main implications for political science
and psychology?
Oh, yeah. And I just want to say at
the outset, I actually don't, I don't think I
disagree. I actually, I kind of uh uh uh
as a human being disagree with it. I don't
like it because I have my own political beliefs
and I'd like to think of principle and it,
it sort of offends my sensibilities and for that
reason, I think they're probably right. Like, I think
uh to the extent that something makes me feel
uncomfortable, I would iii I would prefer to err
on the side of assuming it's probably right. And
when you look at history and, or, yeah. So,
so, yeah. No, I actually do think they're right.
I think that there's still things to unpack about
it. But I mean, and this, this is to
specifically answer your question, what they're really contributing is
this argument that against the existing status quo or
dogma within political science and psychology. And again, this
is not my area of expertise. Um TO the
extent that I've looked into it. I, I agree
with their assessment that this seems to be the
approach, but I, I don't want to suggest that
I know every um I don't know that literature
as well as I know many others. Um But
my understanding and what they're arguing is and, and
the answer to your question is, um what has
currently existed is this idea that what matters is
ideology and once an ideology is adopted, so people
are sort of empty vessels, they take on an
ideology for different reasons. Um And then that ideology,
what follows from that ideology then determines their political
attitudes, their um um their political decisions, et cetera.
And so, um and so this ideology from this
ideology perspective, the enterprise is measuring differences in ideologies
and then determining who is sort of most attracted
to what ideology, for example, if that's what you're
interested in. Um And, and then, um and then
looking at uh well, what are the consequences of
the ideologies for um for things like voting behavior
or different kinds of decisions? And then if you
want to change people's beliefs or opinions or voting
behavior or who they support. The idea is that
you, you change their ideologies, right? Um And so
at every level, the existing theory was ideologies are
sort of the central focal point of the wheel
of political action. And that's really the efficient uh
place to measure political attitudes and opinions. It's the
place to um change them. And the pins off
at all argument is that's basically backwards where the
ideology is sort of this um confabulation. Um And,
and you can see that again in all these
cases where if this is, in fact the ideology,
what follows from it is not what people are
actually thinking or doing. Um And so that's the
main contribution and that's the thing that would need
to change is that it shifts the narrative of
what the science of political psychology is from an
ideology based approach where I think as they describe
it, the um the pins off at all, um
sort of they, I, I looked at a draft
of their response to the comments of their paper
and um I forget where exactly if it's in
that or the target article, but they basically talk
about, you know, they characterized the, the, the, the
previous enterprises basically looking for the essential elements of
ideology, like just treating political science as the science
of figuring out ideological essence of people. Um And
their argument is that's, that is, that's misleading, that's,
that's the exact opposite. And really, in fact, it's
understanding these much more prosaic but fundamental things about
people's alliances, people's interests, people's um uh decisions about,
they look out in the world and they say,
well, I think these people are on my side.
I think these people aren't. Um, NOW there's a
separate issue of whether it's accurate, but in any
case, that's their argument is it's alliances, its interests,
um it's cost benefit analysis and the ideology is
secondary and is a coordinations device um that is
painted on top of this alliance structure and this
jockeying for things like status access to resources, um
et cetera. So that's the change. It, it, it
essentially is a transformation of the, of the science
to the extent that their characterization holds, which I
understand it to be fairly accurate.
Uh OK, but uh what do you think perhaps
are some of the things uh bigger or smaller
that they might be getting wrong in their argument?
Well, I don't think it's wrong. I don't, I
don't think the argument is wrong but I think
it's incomplete and I think that's as complimentary as
one can get about anybody's uh work including one's
own. So I think they're right, but I think
it's incomplete in the following sense. Um Number one
is, well, what counts as an alliance, right? So
they're saying that an alliance sort of is what
underwrites um people's ideas. And so for me, I
my alliance might be people who are like poor.
Um POOR people, you know, in my country. And
so I don't want my, my country to sort
of, like, you know, bomb other poor people in
other countries or, like, you know, take money away
from poor people in my country by building bombs.
Right. Um, BUT other people's allies might be, um,
the, uh, the people doing the bombing because they're
concerned about certain kind of economic systems prevailing over
other kinds of economic systems. Um, um, YOU know,
the, those kinds of alliances, the question is sort
of, well, why do people look out in the
world and decide certain, uh, certain alliances are sort
of part of their interests or not? Um, AND,
um, this is one of the issues with the,
with the idea of an alliance is that, um,
who people support is sort of their de facto
alliance. But then the question is, well, why do
they support it? And you say, well, there are
benefits, there's benefits that, see the, see the costs.
Well, is that actually true? Right. Like there's lots
of people who, um, as people point out, you
know, support economic policies that, um, so, you know,
poor people, um, receive propaganda about, um, you know,
you really should keep the rich people who are
keeping you down, you know, in power because they're
protecting you from, like this out, uh, this threat
from the outside. This is like, you know, demagogues
throughout history have done this thing and we know
this, you know, and if in any one case,
you want to say it doesn't hold in this
particular case, if you look across history, this has
happened many, many times. And so, well, what's the
alliance then? Right? Is it a, is it a
false representation? And maybe that's the answer, right? So
maybe it's something like the poor people who are
being duped by the demagogue are falsely representing their
own interests, right? Um And so they're entering into
an alliance with the demagogue because they think the
demagogue will protect them from like an external threat,
that's not really real. And the demagogue is like
exploiting them for, you know, resource reasons. Um So
saying that everything is sort of an alliance, which
is not what self at all are saying, but
if you just take the idea sort of simply
on its own, you know, um which is useful
to do, you just see that the idea of
an alliance sort of needs to be complimented with
the idea that um alliances are perceptions. Um And
they can be wrong. Um It's not an easy
question to ask in which way are they wrong
and who's wrong at which time? Um But that's
an example of how the theory is limited. Um
It's also difficult to predict how alliances might change.
I mean, the alliance theory gives you an idea.
So for example, as we talked about before, you
know, if I'm a member of group A and
there are other people in my group who are
doing rating of group B and I'm not benefiting
from that, from an alliance perspective to the degree
that, that the theory or the systems in the
of all brains are sort of representing. There are
some people in group A who really don't benefit
from rating. And there are some people in group
A who do, you might anticipate that in the
future, that alliance structure between the people who benefit
and the people who don't within group A might
start to break up, right? Um And so an
alliance based account may give you traction on how
alliances change. But that's still another thing that is
sort of um not fully unpacked in the pins
off paper, but it's also, you know, that's a
complicated dynamic, right? So one paper can only do
so much. So I wouldn't say that it's wrong.
But something like uh the fact that alliances shift
um in trying to have content in one's model
or theory to predict how they shift is also
something that's not in their, their particular paper, but
that's not a limit of their paper. It's just
a description of sort of the scope of it.
But I would say that's another example of the
kind of thing that is still missing, not that
they're responsible single-handedly from doing it. But, but so
those are two examples, you know, just the dynamic
nature of alliances and then also this issue of
sort of alliances can be wrong um in a
sense or at least, you know, misperceptions. Um uh
But I think those are, those are benefits of
the theory in the sense of we, one quickly
realizes that these are things that we have to
like come to terms with. Um um AND I
think both things have come and come to terms
with um um in uh in past work. But
I think the alliance model is a nice way
to think about it and it connects it more
up to these basic questions about this alliance psychology
that removes it from these very specific idiosyncratic things.
Um And it's also very nice in the sense
of um it removes it from sort of this
exotic ideology thing, you know, where you sort of
read things. Well, you know, like these people were,
um you know, are hostile or belligerent because, you
know, they have like, um and there's some very
esoteric, you know, philosophical ideology, you know, as opposed
to, you know, uh well, they're like belligerent because,
you know, like the generation before people bombed them,
you know, and like their Children don't have enough
food. Um SOMETIMES as um um as, as sort
of the, the intelligent uh the, the, the sort
of intelligentsia, right? The, the, the class of people
who work uh by thinking uh making their living,
it's very easy among, among that uh collective of
people to sort of think that like, you know,
esoteric ideas are what drive behavior and are what's
really important as opposed to very simple things. Like
we started this conversation. Why does, why do groups
happen? Why does conflict happen? It's simple stuff. Like
people don't like getting hurt, they don't want their
family to get hurt, they need stuff to live.
Um And so that's another benefit of the pints
off argument. Um Is that I think it, it
brings the narrative back down to, to ground reality
about those kinds of things. Um Again, that's not
saying that people aren't being duped, but it actually
again, clarifies if they're being duped. Um
OK, so I have then one final question, perhaps
more of a topic I would like to explore
today. So you have this very interesting preprint titled
What The Difference The Mind Makes, where you point
to the fact that uh psychologists are also using
their Evolved psychology when studying the mind. And basically
you talk about the difference, detecting mechanisms and then
you argue for possibly the influence that they have
on the science of psychology. So co could you
explain that the reprint? I mean, what are you
arguing there? Exactly. Yeah.
It's basically the evolutionary psychology of psychology, right? And,
and we even talked about that a little bit
with the free will thing, right? Where it's sort
of saying look psychologists, philosophers, these are still people
doing stuff and if you want to study people
doing stuff, you can use an evolutionary psychological approach.
So it's basically the evolutionary psychology of psychology. Um
And so this is this is uh basically um
a vehicle to sort of introduce that enterprise. Um
The past modularity paper was about that the free
will paper will be about that. Um And then
this paper that you're talking about is also about
that and they're all under that umbrella. Um This
specific paper is about difference detecting mechanisms as you've
mentioned. And I'll just introduce sort of what that
is. And so this is an idea coming from
David Bust in particular. Um um And then Aaron
Lukaszewski is also somebody who has sort of picked
up and, and advanced this idea. And the idea
is that the human mind um really should be
designed from an evolutionary perspective to detect important differences
in situations. Like is there a predator coming at
me or not? Right. Um Or, you know, am
I safe or not? And the idea is that
for an evolved organism, what matters are cues that
allow the organism to detect important things, not necessarily
having a really rich true representation of the causal
structure of the world. So for example, a gazelle
um you know, needs to know, am I going
to be predicated upon by a lion? Uh SO
it might have detectors for like, you know, a
lion, it might have detectors in its brain for
sort of like does the lion see me is
the lion close to me and those are all
important things for the gazelle to sort of have
about lion nature, right? It needs to be able
to detect, am I in a situation where the
lion is gonna get me or not? Um ANYTHING
else about how the lion works would not be
selected for it, right? Like the gazelle is not
gonna know like the cognitive neuroscience of lions and
how they work, right? Like that's not, that's not
worth it for the cost benefit calculation of the
gazelle. So the idea is that the gazelle's brain
is just like ours. We are not evolved to
understand how our minds work or other minds work.
We're equipped with the analog of the lion detector
in all kinds of domains. And so what that
means is that our psychology as a default is
using systems when we're doing science that are difference
detecting mechanisms, they're designed for detecting, am I in
a predation situation or not not systems that are
just sort of set up already to sort of
look at objectively the causal structure of the world.
Um And an example of another difference detecting uh
example outside of like gazelle thing would be something
like, you know, let's say you go to a
city and you wanna pick out a good restaurant,
right? Um What would you look at? Well, it
would be the stuff that varies. So how would
you determine what's a good restaurant or what's a
bad restaurant? Well, it might be something like, what's
the level of upkeep of the decor? How hard
is it to get into a, make a reservation?
Is there a line in front of the restaurant
or not? Those are the kinds of cues that,
uh, allow you to distinguish between the quality of
the different restaurants and those are the kinds of
things that a difference detecting mechanism would attend to.
But what wouldn't it attend to? It wouldn't attend
to things like cooking food, right? Um BECAUSE that's
how constant across all the different restaurants, um you
know, it wouldn't attend to things like, you know,
serving the food. So all of the fundamental causal
elements of actually having a good restaurant, right, which
is actually cooking food, preparing it for people getting
tables and chairs and lighting and buildings, those are
all held constant. So those disappear from the perspective
of the difference, detecting mechanisms. And so the idea
is that when we use our psychology to reason
about the mind, we can be misled into only
looking at the little bit of variation as opposed
to the large scale causal structure as the example
of the restaurant just showed. And so, um what
Aaron Kraszewski has done is argued and David Buss
as well has argued that in personality psychology, what
personality psychologists have been doing um is focusing on
differences at the expense of sort of underlying deep
causal structure. So as the analogy with the restaurant
would be that they're f been focusing on sort
of the long lines and the upkeep of the
decor and not at the making food. Um YOU
know, making sure there's a table and a chair
and you have waiters um serving food and things
like that. What I argue in this paper is
that our theory of mind system is one of
these difference detecting mechanisms. And so it's sort of
instead of just taking for granted this thing I
said before, which was that like, you know, Dave
wants to raise his arm. Um YOU know, that's
the structure of our intuitive theory of mind. So
there's sort of an agent slot, a stance slot
and then a content slot. So like Sally wishes
it would rain. You know, Sally believes there's a
lion. Sally remembers a lion. Sally is, you know,
um picturing a lion like this is the structure
of our intuitive everyday way of talking about um
mental states. Um And this is called the propositional
calculus. I mean, you can be jargony about it.
Um But it's sort of a, a real fundamental
um um bedrock of philosophical and psychological theories of
how the mind works. There's sort of an agent
slot, a processor stance slot and a content slot.
And what I do in the paper is just
basically argue that's probably not a description and we
certainly know it's not a functional level description now
that we've talked about that it's an intentional level
description. And why is that the content of the
intentional level description? And the argument is it's an
important difference detecting structure. So you can kind of
think about the agent slot, the the stance or
process slot and the content slot is drop down
menus and computing. So, and to just give you
a very, very simple intuition is sort of I
see a bear versus I'm remembering a bear is
very different situation, right? So, so, so for the
purposes of you and I are like cold, we're
huddled together like behind a tree. We, you know,
and we've been, we're out in the middle of
the woods and I tell you, you know, I
see a bear versus I remember a bear, that's
a very different situation. If I remember a bear,
you don't have to get scared if I see
a bear, you do. And so the idea is
that the process or stance slot is essentially doing
the work of distinguishing situations, a number of different
evolutionarily important situations, like does an agent perceive something
like that's an important, there's a set of inferences
that follow from that? Are they currently perceiving it
or not? Are they remembering it? Right? Are they
thinking about it? The idea is that the reason
why we have these categories of sort of seeing,
remembering, thinking, feeling that they don't necessarily carve up
the causal structure of how the mind works in
a very deep sense. But they um they distinguish
between really important kinds of situations for an evolved
organism, like seeing a bear versus remembering a bear,
right? So they're sort of, they're the kind of
representations, the rough take representations that an evolved system
should have about con specifics in one's own mental
states. And then the content slot is the difference
between, you know, I want a bear versus I
want a canoe, you need to know like what
that content is about. And the reason why there's
an agent slot is it's the difference between, you
know, data Cesar bear versus Ricardo Caesar bear versus,
you know, somebody else sees a bear. Christian sees
a bear, those are important things. And so the
point of the paper, it's pretty basic, it's just
saying look this propositional calculus, agent process content which
forms the basis of propositional calculus, which has sort
of been just taken as a given since, you
know, philosophy of mind essentially started. Um YOU can
do the evolutionary psychology of that and sort of
understand why it has that structure that it has.
And so understanding it and analyzing it does two
things. One is it allows us to think more
about its features from a scientific perspective. But it
also allows us to understand in a more deep
sense, the limits of it. Because again, it's just
like the gazelle, if a gazelle wants to do
science, it has to realize that the lying detectors
that it naturally has um like our intentional psychology
for reasoning about others in their minds is really
gonna mislead us about a lot of the causal
structure. So if we think that Dave wants to
raise his hand is the causal structure is the
mechanisms um in the mind, then we're probably in
trouble, you know. Um And so I, I talked
a little bit later on in the paper about
how this structure agent process content has colored theorizing
in psychology since the outset. And you can look
at very early work like um Franz Brannan in
the 18 hundreds. Um As far back as, as
one can look on writing the idea that sort
of content and process are separate and diss sociable
is um is rampant throughout much of psychological psychology
history. Um So the idea that sort of, you
know, I'm thinking about Mr Smith, um And um
I'm thinking about, you know, Saint Peter's basilica. This
is an example by um Bertrand Russell in the
19 twenties. And even then by then, it was
old um in his really good book analysis of
mind. Um And he talks about how, you know,
the process of thinking is the same, what's different
is the content. And you take that very old
idea because of the propositional calculus. And even up
through today, the idea that sort of certain kinds
of algorithms are content independent, certainly they can be
applied to different contents. But the idea that you
only need a certain kind of algorithm like bay
and updating or um you know, plug it in
and um plug in the algorithm. The idea that
that's sufficient to solve a problem, any kind of
information processing problem is not true. And anybody who
looks in detail at solving any information processing problem,
like reinforcement learning, early reinforcement learning. One of the
first instances of reinforcement learning was a Chucker playing
program. Um Richards. Um Well, yeah. Um uh Well,
I'll skip the 000 I won't go in that
aggression of the history of the checkers playing program.
But basically, the point is um you know, early
on people realized that reinforcement learning, for example, would
not be sufficient on its own as a principle
to have a checkers playing program. You need checkers,
um specific kinds of um representations attached to that
more general algorithm, how you get those could be
plugged in or can be learned, but they still
have to be there. And um and that lesson
has kind of always been learned, but it's always
lost. Um People are always erring on the side
like the behaviorists of thinking you only need about
like seven rules and like everything else is trivial.
Um And the argument, for example, in the paper
and this may be right or it may be
wrong, but it's an argument is that one of
the reasons why we keep forgetting this lesson is
the propositional calculus that our minds are structured to
think. There's the unitary thinker that uses principles of
information processing, like reasoning or thinking or plug in
something else like bay and updating that then applies
to all content. And so this is a deep
prejudice in the mind and to the extent our
psychological theories recapitulate this deep prejudice. We're just sort
of rehashing what we know to be false until
we look into it again and find out that
it's not sufficient. So, so yeah, that's, that's what
the papers about.
So my final, my final question today will be
then if the main argument of your paper is
correct, how could we deal with it when it
comes to how we do science and more specifically
uh psychological
science? Yeah, it's a great question. I mean, and
again, this is not even my idea, this is
whenever we've looked, um it's to, as I talked
about earlier, it's to move down a level and
it is just sort of be skeptical about the
intentional level, say, look, it's fine as a description
of what we need to explain. But to then
say, look, we have to move down this intuitive,
unintuitive level from the intuitive level to an unintuitive
level, this functional level where the systems that we
talk about are defined by their functions. And we
have to speculate about what those functions might be.
So we're, we've been talking today about systems in
the mind that attend to alliances, that's not an
intuitive part of human psychology. That's not Dave believes
this or Ricardo thinks that. Um And then, well,
then how does that work? Right. And how does
the alliance system detector work? Well, it has to
attend to certain cues and how did that, what
are those cues? And, right, you just keep unpacking
that. And so the, the bottom line is we
need a psychology, The the way around the the
problem is to embrace this functional level of analysis
for one. And for two, what that means if
you take it seriously is that we have to
be able to speculate about abstract functions, we have
to be able to try to think about what
are the information processing the mind solves and what
are mechanical solutions to that and be prepared that
there will be many, many answers to that at
many different levels of specificity. And I think one
of the, one of the things I'm realizing that
I think is just it's very simple and fundamental
to the success of psychology is if we go
in thinking that the science of the mind can
be about as complicated as you know, seven systems,
or we're gonna go in looking for two systems
or anything. If we're gonna go in with a
prior expectation of this has to be pretty simple.
Um It has to be a certain kind of
thing as opposed to there's lots of stuff, doing
lots of things, lots of places, which is already
how we think about the body. Um, YOU know,
it's simple in that respect. It's just we should
go in the way we think about the body.
There's gonna be lots of stuff doing lots of
things and simple things. Like, is it, is it
one system or two, is it um intuitive or
hard or easy or um those kinds of distinctions?
They're fine but they're not how you get there.
Um And so how you get there is you
stay at that functional level and you also then
have to be able to speculate about functions before
you um before you start collecting data. And this
is the other problem in psychology is there's a
long standing tension between psychology being a science of
how the mind works and science being a collection
of empirical facts. Um And if you're gonna do
an engineering enterprise, which is what essentially psychology is.
Um YOU have to have theories about what you
should be looking for. And the theory crisis in
psychology is doing a good job of exposing failures
in theory. But I think there's a much deeper
issue that hasn't been addressed, which is everybody's happy
to say there's a theory crisis. But if you
take seriously what's required to resolve it, we already
know what that is because we, we don't have
a theory crisis in early steps of vision, we
don't have a theory crisis in early steps of
motor control. And what, why that is is because
those are areas where we really have a clear
idea about what the information processing problems are and
people are taking seriously that there have to be
a lot of mechanisms for dealing with each of
those problems. But if you look at many area,
other areas of psychology, if you try to write
a paper about what are the problems inherent in
groups? For example, like my, how does the mind
see a group paper which is published at B
BS? I've tried to, I've tried to publish that
other places. Um And people said, well, you don't
have data or you don't have a model, right?
And the point is that what I was talking
about is the stuff you need to do before
you have data before you have a model because
you don't know what data to look for, what,
what to model. And this was not a one
off thing. I've this, I've come up against this
issue for many other projects at this stage. I've
talked to many other people and so there is
uh a culture and it's nobody's fault. It's just
a structural issue. There's a culture of not adequately
allowing for the enterprise that derives what we should
be looking for first before we start conducting our
modeling or empirical studies. You know, I'm an experimental
psychologist too, but we have to be willing to
sort of be both theorists, speculative theorists and then
also check our ideas um in psychology is just
not structured right now um to do both things.
So sort of half of psychology is missing the,
the front half. And that's, that's the the real
problem. And, and so functional level of analysis in
allowing for speculative ideas about problems and their solutions.
Um Those are the things we have to do
to solve this problem.
Great. So uh as I said, at the beginning,
I will be leaving a link also to our
first conversation in the description box of this one
which I think all everyone should watch or listen
to because it provides a lot of background and
context to our conversation today. So, but apart from
that, would you like to tell people again where
they can find you and your work on the
internet?
Sure, absolutely. So, um so currently we are having
this conversation where I am in Berlin, Germany. But
um by the time I think it's posted, I
will be in um sunny Santa Barbara. So um
if you look at me um at the University
of California, Santa Barbara, um I'm in the Psychology
of Psychological and Brain Sciences. Um I'm also a
member of the Center for Evolutionary Psychology. Um And
so if you look me up that way, um
or just Google scholar that, that'll be a way
in my last name is sort of imposing Pietra
Zi. Uh It's, it's a difficult name to spell.
But if you just start Pieetr A but, but
hopefully by the time you get to A or
S uh something will fill in um and you
can go from there. But uh but that's how
to find me. Yeah.
Ok, great. So look, thank you so much again
for coming on the show. It's always a big
pleasure to talk with you. And as I said,
when we were talking about free will. If you're
open to that, please come back on the show
next year or so with doctor Christian Li to
talk more about
that. That'd be great. I don't think we will
have a choice about it. So,
hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perego Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno,
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam Castle Matthew Whitting
B no wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Connors Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in NAI
Z Mark nevs called Hafid Governor Mikel Stormer Samuel
Andre Francis for Agns Ferger, Ken Herz J and
Lain Jung Y and the K Hes Mark Smith
J Tom Hummel s Friends, David Wilson, the desario,
Roman Roach Diego, Jan Punter, Romani Charlotte, Bli Nico
Barba, Adam Hunt, Pavlo Stassi, Nale Me, Gary G
Alman Sam of Zaypj Barboza, Julian Price Edward Hall,
Eden Broner Douglas Fry Franca, Lati Gilon Cortez or
Solis Scott Zachary. Ftw Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul
Giorgino, Luke Loki, Georgio Theophanous Chris Williams and Peter
Wo David Williams Di A Costa, Anton Erickson Charles
Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore Fist,
Larry Dey junior, Old Eon Starry Michael Bailey. Then
Spur by Robert Grassy Zorn, Jeff mcmahon, Jake Zul
Barnabas Radis Mark Kemple Thomas Dvor Luke Neeson, Chris
to Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No, Linda Brendan
Nicholas Carlson Ismael Bensley Man George Katis, Valentine Steinman
Perros, Kate Von Goler, Alexander Albert Liam Dan Biar
Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular J Ner Urla. Good enough
Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean Nelson, Mike Levin
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers
is our web, Jim Frank Luca Toni, Tom Vig
and Bernard N Cortes Dixon Bendik Muller Thomas Trumble
Catherine and Patrick Tobin John Carl Negro, Nick Ortiz
and Nick Golden. And to my executive producers, Matthew
Lavender, Si Adrian Bogdan Knits and Rosie. Thank you
for all.